README.md, before:

# Super Simple Disk Benchmark

inspired by [simple disk benchmark][1].

This tool has just one single purpose, it measures the writing performance of your hard disk on macOS and Linux. More precisely spoken of the disk under your `CWD`.

It used random data from `/dev/random` and writes first sequentially chunks of 4MB until a total 4GB is written. It measures writing time and throughput.

After that it writes this random data 8 times again on disk and measures the average writing times and throughput for this.

## Quick Start

### Install

To install the ssd-benchmark tool, you just need to run

```bash
cargo install --force ssd-benchmark
```

(--force just makes it update to the latest version if it's already installed)

to verify if the installation went through, you can run `ssd-benchmark` that should output similar to

```sh
$HOME/.cargo/bin/ssd-benchmark
```

### Usage

```sh
$ ssd-benchmark

###             Super Simple Disk Benchmark              ###
## Star me on https://github.com/sassman/ssd-benchmark-rs ##

Filling buffer with 4 MB random data...
Initilisation of buffer done        6 ms

Starting benchmark...

Perform sequential writing of total 4096 MB in 4 MB chunks...
 Total time                         12326 ms
 Throughput                         341.33334 MB/s

Perform 8 cycles of writing of 4096 MB...
 Cycle 1 time                       9905 ms
 Throughput                         413.52853 MB/s
 Cycle 2 time                       11242 ms
 Throughput                         364.348 MB/s
 Cycle 3 time                       12325 ms
 Throughput                         332.33267 MB/s
 Cycle 4 time                       11174 ms
 Throughput                         366.56522 MB/s
 Cycle 5 time                       13384 ms
 Throughput                         306.03708 MB/s
 Cycle 6 time                       11482 ms
 Throughput                         356.73227 MB/s
 Cycle 7 time                       14958 ms
 Throughput                         273.8334 MB/s
 Cycle 8 time                       11216 ms
 Throughput                         365.1926 MB/s

 Total time                         95690 ms
 Average write time                 11961 ms
 Average throughput                 342.4463 MB/s
```

The great thing is, there are no parameters or options.

## Missing something?

If you miss a feature file an issue on [github][2] and don't forget to star the repo.

[1]: http://www.geschke-online.de/sdb/
[2]: https://github.com/sassman/ssd-benchmark-rs/issues

Commit message:

feat(stats): implement more stats and more accurate measurement
 - implement std deviation as generic func
 - implement mean as generic func
 - reduce code duplicates with some macro rules
 - reduce further duplications with helper trait for throughput calculation

README.md, after:

# Super Simple Disk Benchmark

inspired by [simple disk benchmark][1].

This tool has just one single purpose, it measures the writing performance of your hard disk on macOS and Linux. More precisely spoken of the disk under your `CWD`.

It used random data from [`rand crate`][3] and writes first sequentially chunks of 8MB until a total 1GB is written. It measures writing time and throughput.

After that it writes this random data 8 times again on disk and measures the average writing times and throughput for this.

## Quick Start

### Install

To install the ssd-benchmark tool, you just need to run

```bash
cargo install --force ssd-benchmark
```

(--force just makes it update to the latest version if it's already installed)

to verify if the installation went through, you can run `ssd-benchmark` that should output similar to

```sh
$HOME/.cargo/bin/ssd-benchmark
```

### Usage

```sh
$ ssd-benchmark

###             Super Simple Disk Benchmark              ###
## Star me on https://github.com/sassman/ssd-benchmark-rs ##

Filling buffer with 8 MB random data...
Initilisation of buffer done               4890 ms

Starting benchmark...

Perform sequential writing of total 1024 MB in 8 MB chunks
................................................................................................................................

Total time                                 2522 ms
Throughput                               512.00 MB/s

Perform 8 write cycles of 1024 MB
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................

Total time                                29598 ms
Min write time                             2516 ms
Max write time                             4934 ms
Range write time                           2418 ms
Average write time μ                       3699 ms
Standard deviation σ                        801 ms

Min throughput                           207.54 MB/s
Max throughput                           407.00 MB/s
Average throughput Ø                     276.83 MB/s
Standard deviation σ                      64.76 MB/s
```

The great thing is, there are no parameters or options.

## Missing something?

If you miss a feature file an issue on [github][2] and don't forget to star the repo.

[1]: http://www.geschke-online.de/sdb/
[2]: https://github.com/sassman/ssd-benchmark-rs/issues
[3]: https://crates.io/crates/rand
